How HISD’s Sunrise Centers are helping underserved students

HOUSTON – For many parents back to school can be a financial burden. Last school year the Houston Independent School District announced it was eliminating its wraparound services department, which helped families struggling to provide basic necessities to their children.

“[I was] worried, as were other parents in my situation; how are they going to do it?” said Maria Reynoso, who has a son in high school in HISD. “Economically everything’s getting high, but our paycheck is still the same amount.”

2 Investigates met Reynoso at HISD’s Sunrise Center set-up inside Mission Milby on Broadway in southeast Houston. She was picking up school supplies and clothes for her son.

SEE ALSO: Kinder Institute uses research to help HISD improve Sunrise Centers

Reynoso said the cost of ensuring her son has what he needs for school means making tough choices.

“I’m still trying to see if I’m not going to get evicted from my apartment,” said Reynoso.

“So, the choice is get everything your teenager needs or pay rent?” asked 2 investigates Robert Arnold.

“Yes, for me it’s get everything I need for school or pay rent?” said Reynoso.

In prior years, HISD’s wraparound services department would help struggling families connect with support services so their children could go to class and learn. Budget constraints and dwindling enrollment forced HISD to shutter this department.

However, the district opened seven Sunrise Centers in the fall of 2023. HISD partnered with the Houston Education Research Consortium (HERC), which is part of Rice University’s Kinder Institute, to determine where the Centers should be located and what services should be offered.


The centers offer food, clothes, educational support, healthcare, mental health support, help with transportation and a variety of other services.

Rice’s data shows 80-percent of HISD students are economically disadvantaged. HISD opened an eighth center this month at Marian Community Center on South Gessner in southwest Houston.

“We know that when kids aren’t well, or if they’re not being serviced with food or clothes, sometimes that adds to truancy, that they don’t go to school. So, this is a way to help that, support that, and then get the attendance up as well,” said HISD superintendent Mike Miles.

HISD’s data shows in the first year of operation the Centers served 30,900 families, and Rice’s data shows those who went to a Center showed a 33-percent improvement in attendance or behavior.

One of the differences between the centers and the now shuttered wraparound services department is they are in the community and families can walk-in without an appointment.

“It was hard to get an appointment at the school and up here you can just walk in, and then they can see you right there and then instead of trying to get an appointment,” said Reynoso.

Rice researchers point out it is easier to measure effectiveness at the Centers since student needs are in one place. Prior to the Centers, students and their families would go to a school and get a referral for support at different locations.

The Centers were set-up within existing community centers like Mission Milby, the YMCA or City of Houston facility. According to Rice, HISD is hoping to eventually expand to 12 Centers to reach all underserved communities identified by HERC.

“They do ask what school do your kids go to? And they, the people, that’s their work for HISD, so they know how to help you and what you’re needing for that certain grade,” said Reynoso.

Here are the locations of the HISD Sunrise Centers
